RNs 45097 + 45180 (#6245)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: dataminer/Functions/Dashboards_and_Low_Code_Apps/Visualizations/Available_visualizations/Basic_controls/RichTextInput.md

---
uid: RichTextInput
---

# Rich text input

Available from DataMiner 10.5.0 [CU15]/10.6.0 [CU3]/10.6.6 onwards<!--RN 45097 + 45180-->.

> The rich text input component allows you to **enter and edit formatted text** in a dashboard or low-code app. The entered content is stored as HTML.

Reviewer: "The entered content is stored as HTML" is not a correct statement. 

The component doesn't save anything. This is a component just like the search input, text input and numeric input. 

But in this case the output is HTML that is build from your rich text

Author: @Robin-Debel, I misinterpreted this. Thanks for the feedback! Would this adjustment be better?

```suggestion
The rich text input component allows you to **enter and edit formatted text** in a dashboard or low-code app. The entered content is then exposed as HTML.
```

Reviewer: Looks good

| ![Underline](~/dataminer/images/RTI_Underline.png) | Underline | Underline the selected text (Ctrl+U). |
| ![Strikethrough](~/dataminer/images/RTI_Strikethrough.png) | Strikethrough | Apply strikethrough formatting to the selected text. |
| ![Hyperlinks](~/dataminer/images/RTI_Hyperlink.png) | Hyperlinks | Insert, edit, or remove hyperlinks. |
| ![Undo](~/dataminer/images/RTI_Undo.png) | Undo | Undo the last action (Ctrl+Z). |
| ![Redo](~/dataminer/images/RTI_Redo.png) | Redo | Redo the last undone action (Ctrl+Y). |

## Configuration options

### Rich text input layout

In the *Layout* pane, you can find the default options for all components. See [Customizing the component layout](xref:Customize_Component_Layout).

### Rich text input settings

| Section | Option | Description |
|--|--|--|
| General | Emit value on | Determine when the value in the box becomes available as data. This can be when the focus is no longer on the box ("Focus lost"), or when the value in the box changes ("Value change"). |
| General | Default value | Specify the default value that will be entered into the input box when the dashboard or low-code app is opened. HTML text formatting is supported. |

> ## Text input component actions

Reviewer: Title isn't correct here?

Author: @Robin-Debel, completely overlooked this. Fixed now!

```suggestion
## Rich text input component actions
```
